---
title: RAID Level
slug: Glossary/Raid_Level
category: linux
tags:
  - Linux
  - Raid
  - Raid level
  - data mirroring
  - data striping
  - data parity
---
{{LearnSidebar}}

Redundant Array of Independent Disks(RAID) is a stroage virtualization
technology to improve data redundancy or performance improvement by
creating logical unit of storage with help of multiple disk drive
components. Data is distributed across the drives in one of the several
ways ,referred to as RAID levels,depending on the specific level of
redundancy and performance required.

The different Schemes or architectures are named by the word RAID followed by a number(eg.RAID
0,RAID 1). Each scheme provides a difference balance between the key
goals:reliabitiy,availablity,performance,capacity. RAID levels greater
than RAID 0 provide protection against unrecoverable(sector) read
errors,as well as whole disk failure.

## Data Striping

Data Striping is the technique of segmenting/dividing logically
sequential data,and then distributing the data across multiple storage
devices.Striping is useful when a processing device requests data more
quicker than a single storage device can provide it.It only provides
excellent I/O performance ,there is no redundancy.

## Data Mirroring

Data Mirroring is the technique of storing the same set of data blocks
across the multiple storage devices.Mirroring is useful for when one of
storage device failure in a group of storage devices which is configured
as data mirrored technique.

## Data Parity

Data Parity is the technique of storing the parity information data on
dedicated disk or distributed across all the disk in RAID group of
disks.Parity information are the sum(XOR) of the elemets which is
storing on the all the remaining disk in RAID.In-case of one disk
failure then losing data would calculated by subtracting the remaining
data across the RAID set.

## RAID 0

RAID 0 is the one of the RAID Level and it provides excellent
performance with minimum of 2 hard disk.

  - Excellent performance (Striping)
  - Data Blocks are striped between the disks.
  - Minimum of 2 disks
  - No Redundancy/Mirror/Parity.
  - Not advisable for any critical system.

## RAID 1

RAID 1 is the one of the RAID level and it provides good performance
with minimum of 2 hard disks and data are mirroring between the disks.

  - Excellent Redundancy (Mirroring)
  - Good Performance
  - Minimum of 2 disks
  - No Striping/ Parity.

## RAID 5

RAID 5 is the one of the RAID level and it provides Good redundancy and
performance with minimum of 3 hard disks.

  - Good Performance (Data Striping)
  - Good redundancy (Distributed parity)
  - Minimum of 3 disks.
  - No Mirroring.

## See also

- {{Interwiki("wikipedia", "RAID")}} on Wikipedia
- {{Interwiki("wikipedia", "Standard_RAID_levels")}} on Wikipedia